Psalm 106
praise the Lord Oh give thanks to the
Lord for he is good for his mercy
endures forever who can utter the mighty
acts of the Lord who can declare all his
praise blessed are those who keep
justice and he who does righteousness at
all times remember me O Lord with the
favor you have toward your people o
visit me with your salvation that I may
see the benefit of your chosen ones that
I may rejoice in the gladness of your
nation that I may glory with your
inheritance we have sinned with our
fathers we have committed iniquity we
have done wickedly our fathers in Egypt
did not understand your wonders they did
not remember the multitude of your
mercies
but rebelled by the sea the red sea
nevertheless he saved them for his
name's sake that he might make his
mighty power known he rebuked the red
sea also and it dried up so he led them
through the depths as through the
wilderness he saved them from the hand
of him who hated them and redeemed them
from the hand of the enemy the waters
covered their enemies there was not one
of them left then they believed his
words they sang his praise they soon for
God his works they did not wait for his
counsel but lusted exceedingly in the
wilderness and tested God in the desert
and he gave them their request but sent
leanness into their soul when they
envied Moses in the camp and Aaron the
saint of the Lord the earth opened up
and swallowed Athan and covered the
faction of a Byram a fire was kindled in
their company the flame burned up the
wicked they made a calf in Horeb and
worshipped the molded image thus they
changed their glory into the image of an
ox that
grass they forgot God their Savior who
had done great things in Egypt wondrous
works in the land of ham awesome things
by the Red Sea therefore he said that he
would destroy them had not Moses his
chosen one stood before him in the
breach to turn away his wrath lest he
destroy them then they despised the
pleasant land they did not believe his
word but complained in their tents and
did not heed the voice of the Lord
therefore he raised his hand in an oath
against them to overthrow them in the
wilderness to overthrow their
descendents among the nations and to
scatter them in the lands they joined
themselves also to bale of PR and ate
sacrifices made to the dead
thus they provoked him to anger with
their deeds and the plague broke out
among them then Phineas stood up and
intervened and the plague was stopped
and that was accounted to him for
righteousness to all generations forever
more they angered him also at the waters
of strife so that it went ill with Moses
on account of them because they rebelled
against his spirit so that he spoke
rashly with his lips they did not
destroy the people's concerning whom the
Lord had commanded them but they mingled
with the Gentiles and learned their
works they served their idols which
became a snare to them they even
sacrificed their sons and their
daughters to demons and shed innocent
blood the blood of their sons and
daughters whom they sacrificed to the
idols of Canaan and the land was
polluted with blood
thus they were defiled by their own
works and played the harlot by their own
deeds
therefore the wrath of the Lord was
kindled against his people so that he
had hoard his own inheritance and he
gave them into the hand of the Gentiles
and those who hated them
ruled over them their enemies also
oppress them and they were brought into
subjection under their hand many times
he delivered them but they rebelled in
their counsel and were brought lo for
their iniquity nevertheless he regarded
their affliction when he heard their cry
and for their sake he remembered his
covenant and relented according to the
multitude of his mercies he also made
them to be pitied by all those who
carried them away captive save us O Lord
our God and gather us from among the
Gentiles to give thanks to your Holy
Name to triumph in your praise blessed
be the Lord God of Israel from
everlasting to everlasting and let all
the people say Amen praise the Lord
you